---
layout: archive
title: ""
permalink: /research/
author_profile: true
redirect_from:
  - /research
---

# Job Market Paper

## A Different Kind of Tradeoff: Partitioning in Markets for Time and Attention

What determines the diversity of cultural material produced in a market? In many consumer product markets, periods of competition support cultural diversity, but alternating periods of concentration drive cultural homogeneity. A stable partition can emerge, separating a culturally homogenous market center from a culturally diverse periphery. Cultural diversity exists temporarily, or is relegated to the market fringe. These conditions are reflected in the particular choice faced by organizations: grow in the market center by producing culturally generic material, or attract a smaller, engaged consumer base by producing culturally distinct material in the periphery. I examine a different kind of market: markets for time and attention, in which consumers can readily engage with multiple organizations simultaneously and easily transition from consumers to also producers of content. I study Reddit as a case of an attention market, leveraging user participation data and the text of over 2 billion comments from numerous subreddits. I find that subreddits face a different kind of tradeoff underlying a different capacity for culturally diverse material: cultural diversity thrives in dense, competitive areas of the resource space, while cultural homogeneity emerges in sparse, uncompetitive areas. I draw on these findings to introduce a broader theory of market partitioning.

# Working Papers

## Apprentice Then Mentor: Building Networks of Expertise in Organizations

Recent work describes expertise as a network of actors working together to solve problems. Professionals pass on their knowledge to other actors—often clients, empowering them as co-experts. Research has shown that this deep coordination can improve problem solving relative to traditional professional-client relationships. These networks depend not only on professionals’ generosity to share knowledge, but also on clients’ willingness to welcome empowerment. I examine a setting where clients avoid, rather than welcome, empowerment, and ask how professionals can build networks of expertise in the face of such resistance. I specifically investigate coordination within organizations between staff professionals handling various kinds of infrastructure work and their production worker clients. These clients often resist involvement in infrastructure work which they view as low status—work for example in human resources, information technology, and safety. Leveraging ethnographic data of safety professionals in a research setting, I identify a two-part process through which professionals can raise the status of their work and build networks of expertise. First, professionals apprentice themselves in the work of the client, learning holistically about client work and modeling a learning mindset for clients. Second, professionals mentor clients, drawing on their apprenticeship to tailor their expertise to local contexts of client work. Doing so raises the status of the professional’s work by displaying its relevance to clients’ work. Clients recognize the importance of the professional’s work and welcome empowerment to become co-experts. Additionally, clients proactively share knowledge of their local work contexts back with professionals—a commingling of expertise.

## Beyond Representation: Extending the Effectiveness of Diversity Approaches via Individuation (with Ray Reagans)

Organizations face two main options for managing diversity: a “colorblind” approach that minimizes differences by valuing equality and a “multicultural” approach that highlights, and thereby values, differences. Emerging research emphasizes the importance of demographic representation in shaping the appeal of either approach to women and people of color. While this helps to make sense of why these groups respond better to different approaches, it introduces a tradeoff. Because these groups are usually represented at different levels within organizations, managers may have to choose between creating a culture that benefits women or people of color, but not both. Building on a connection between representation and a more general idea of individuation, this paper argues that individuation offers a more malleable contingency along which the effectiveness of a diversity approach varies. The benefit of a more malleable contingency is that it enables managers to foster alignment. We predict that this alignment will in turn enable a single diversity approach to work for all demographic groups. In an experiment, we find support for our predictions. First, we find that the effectiveness of a diversity approach varies with individuation. Second, we find that aligning different demographic groups on their level of individuation softens the tradeoff between choosing a “colorblind” or “multicultural” approach, such that all groups perform as well or better under one approach compared to the other.


## Concerted Quantification: How Expert Teams Reconcile Overwork and Client Satisfaction (with Vanessa Conzon)

White-collar employees are increasingly overworking, with negative individual and organizational consequences. Pressures for long intense hours often come from clients and are reinforced by coworkers’ concertive controls, and the increasing quantification of work has, in many cases, tightened such controls. We examine if and how employees might rely upon quantification to, in contrast, limit overwork. We draw on data from a 21-month ethnography of teams of IT professionals who work for clients in finance. We find that while these workers faced pressure to overwork, they managed this tension through a process we label “concerted quantification.” In this process, team members commensurate tasks into smaller numeric units that are then summed into a larger numeric figure that represents the work the team will accomplish in a two-week period. They then leverage this quantification in two ways: to openly justify maintaining their workload, particularly when facing peer pressure to take on more work, by pointing to numbers as collective, codified team decisions; and to obscure work changes from clients. To support these actions, workers legitimize quantification to clients. Overall, we find that quantifying processes both (a) help teams determine an appropriate amount of work to take on without engaging in overwork, and (b) set clients’ expectations of success in this context of expert, professional work. We contribute to research on overwork, concertive control, and quantification by highlighting how quantification, through opaqueness and transparency, can allow white-collar workers to limit overwork.





